README.md, before:

# Bee-Graph

A Neo4j-based knowledge graph system to query content in OpenStax textbooks using LLMs.

## Quick Setup

### 1. Prerequisites
- [Python 3.8+](https://www.python.org/) installed 
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/) installed and running
- Git (optional)

### 2. Setup Database
Docker provides a consistent and portable environment for running applications. Neo4j is a graph database optimized for connected data. Using Docker with Neo4j makes it easy to set up, run, and scale graph databases reliably across environments.


#### Clone the repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd bee-graph
```
#### Create virtual environment
```bash
python -m venv venv
```

#### Activate Python virtual environment
```bash
# Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
# Mac/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
```

#### Install requirements
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
````

#### Setup Neo4j database usign Docker
```bash
python scripts/setup_database.py --auto-start-docker --create-database

#### Test database connection
python scripts/setup_database.py --test
```

#### Access Neo4j Browser
 Open in your browser: http://localhost:7474


 ### 3. Load and Ingest OpenStax Textbooks 

 #### Copy the link to the OpexStax Github Repository 

 Navigate to https://github.com/openstax > Select your textbook > Click '<> Code' Green Button > Click 'HTTPS' > Copy link 

 #### Run the command below 

 ```bash 
cd textbooks
git submodule [link]
 ```


## Project Structure
```bash
bee-graph/
├── config/              # Configuration files
├── scripts/             # Setup and utility scripts
├── src/                 # Source code
└── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
```

##Textbook Hierarchy 

```mermaid
graph TD
    %% Node Types
    Book[Book]
    Chapter[Chapter]
    Subchapter[Subchapter]
    Document[Document]
    Section[Section]
    Subsection[Subsection]
    Paragraph[Paragraph]
    Sentence[Sentence]
    Concept[Concept]

    %% Top-Down CONTAINS Relationships
    Book -->|BOOK_CONTAINS_CHAPTER| Chapter
    Chapter -->|CHAPTER_CONTAINS_SUBCHAPTER| Subchapter
    Chapter -->|CHAPTER_CONTAINS_DOCUMENT| Document
    Subchapter -->|SUBCHAPTER_CONTAINS_DOCUMENT| Document
    Document -->|DOCUMENT_CONTAINS_SECTION| Section
    Document -->|DOCUMENT_CONTAINS_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Section -->|SECTION_CONTAINS_SUBSECTION| Subsection
    Section -->|SECTION_CONTAINS_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Subsection -->|SUBSECTION_CONTAINS_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Paragraph -->|PARAGRAPH_CONTAINS_SENTENCE| Sentence
    Sentence -->|SENTENCE_CONTAINS_CONCEPT| Concept

    %% Bottom-Up BELONGS_TO Relationships
    Concept -.->|CONCEPT_BELONGS_TO_SENTENCE| Sentence
    Sentence -.->|SENTENCE_BELONGS_TO_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Paragraph -.->|PARAGRAPH_BELONGS_TO_SUBSECTION| Subsection
    Paragraph -.->|PARAGRAPH_BELONGS_TO_SECTION| Section
    Paragraph -.->|PARAGRAPH_BELONGS_TO_DOCUMENT| Document
    Subsection -.->|SUBSECTION_BELONGS_TO_SECTION| Section
    Section -.->|SECTION_BELONGS_TO_DOCUMENT| Document
    Document -.->|DOCUMENT_BELONGS_TO_SUBCHAPTER| Subchapter
    Document -.->|DOCUMENT_BELONGS_TO_CHAPTER| Chapter
    Subchapter -.->|SUBCHAPTER_BELONGS_TO_CHAPTER| Chapter
    Chapter -.->|CHAPTER_BELONGS_TO_BOOK| Book

    %% Styling
    classDef nodeType fill:#e1f5fe,stroke:#01579b,stroke-width:2px

    class Book,Chapter,Subchapter,Document,Section,Subsection,Paragraph,Sentence,Concept nodeType
```

Commit message:

README update for adding realtionships and nodes

README.md, after:

# Bee-Graph

A Neo4j-based knowledge graph system to query content in OpenStax textbooks using LLMs.

## Quick Setup

### 1. Prerequisites
- [Python 3.8+](https://www.python.org/) installed 
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/) installed and running
- Git 

### 2. Setup Database
Docker provides a consistent and portable environment for running applications. Neo4j is a graph database optimized for connected data. Using Docker with Neo4j makes it easy to set up, run, and scale graph databases reliably across environments.


#### Clone the repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd bee-graph
```
#### Create virtual environment
```bash
python -m venv venv
```

#### Activate Python virtual environment
```bash
# Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
# Mac/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
```

#### Install requirements
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
````

#### Setup Neo4j database usign Docker
```bash
python scripts/setup_database.py --auto-start-docker --create-database

#### Test database connection
python scripts/setup_database.py --test
```

#### Access Neo4j Browser
 Open in your browser: http://localhost:7474


 ### 3. Load and Ingest OpenStax Textbooks 

 #### Copy the link to the OpexStax Github Repository 

 Navigate to https://github.com/openstax > Select your textbook > Click '<> Code' Green Button > Click 'HTTPS' > Copy link 

 #### Run the command below to load the textbook 

 ```bash 
cd textbooks
git submodule [link]
 ```

 #### Setup Database Nodes and Relationships with Sample Data

```bash
 python scripts/setup_neo4j_schema.py --setup-schema --create-sample-data
 ```



## Project Structure
```bash
bee-graph/
├── config/              # Configuration files
├── scripts/             # Setup and utility scripts
├── src/                 # Source code
└── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
```

##Textbook Hierarchy 

```mermaid
graph TD
    %% Node Types
    Book[Book]
    Chapter[Chapter]
    Subchapter[Subchapter]
    Document[Document]
    Section[Section]
    Subsection[Subsection]
    Paragraph[Paragraph]
    Sentence[Sentence]
    Concept[Concept]

    %% Top-Down CONTAINS Relationships
    Book -->|BOOK_CONTAINS_CHAPTER| Chapter
    Chapter -->|CHAPTER_CONTAINS_SUBCHAPTER| Subchapter
    Chapter -->|CHAPTER_CONTAINS_DOCUMENT| Document
    Subchapter -->|SUBCHAPTER_CONTAINS_DOCUMENT| Document
    Document -->|DOCUMENT_CONTAINS_SECTION| Section
    Document -->|DOCUMENT_CONTAINS_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Section -->|SECTION_CONTAINS_SUBSECTION| Subsection
    Section -->|SECTION_CONTAINS_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Subsection -->|SUBSECTION_CONTAINS_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Paragraph -->|PARAGRAPH_CONTAINS_SENTENCE| Sentence
    Sentence -->|SENTENCE_CONTAINS_CONCEPT| Concept

    %% Bottom-Up BELONGS_TO Relationships
    Concept -.->|CONCEPT_BELONGS_TO_SENTENCE| Sentence
    Sentence -.->|SENTENCE_BELONGS_TO_PARAGRAPH| Paragraph
    Paragraph -.->|PARAGRAPH_BELONGS_TO_SUBSECTION| Subsection
    Paragraph -.->|PARAGRAPH_BELONGS_TO_SECTION| Section
    Paragraph -.->|PARAGRAPH_BELONGS_TO_DOCUMENT| Document
    Subsection -.->|SUBSECTION_BELONGS_TO_SECTION| Section
    Section -.->|SECTION_BELONGS_TO_DOCUMENT| Document
    Document -.->|DOCUMENT_BELONGS_TO_SUBCHAPTER| Subchapter
    Document -.->|DOCUMENT_BELONGS_TO_CHAPTER| Chapter
    Subchapter -.->|SUBCHAPTER_BELONGS_TO_CHAPTER| Chapter
    Chapter -.->|CHAPTER_BELONGS_TO_BOOK| Book

    %% Styling
    classDef nodeType fill:#e1f5fe,stroke:#01579b,stroke-width:2px

    class Book,Chapter,Subchapter,Document,Section,Subsection,Paragraph,Sentence,Concept nodeType
```
